Characters in Caves of Golorp are defined by seven attributes:
Susceptibility, Weakness, Misfortune, Clumsiness, Stupidity,
Ugliness, and Hit Points.  You have a limited opportunity to
customize your character by choosing your attributes at the
beginning of the game.

By the way, this help screen, like similar screens elsewhere in
the game, can be scrolled up and down with the up and down
arrow keys.  You can also use the page up and page down keys to
scroll a page at a time; spacebar is a synonym for page down. 
Press Q to exit the help screen.

Now, the seven attributes:

SUSCEPTIBILITY determines how badly you tend to be injured when
bad things happen to you.  Characters with a higher
Susceptibility will suffer more Hit Points when hit by the same
amount of force.  Susceptibility also determines how long it
takes you to lose Hit Points once you acquire them.

WEAKNESS reduces your effectiveness when you use physical
force.  For instance, a character with a higher Weakness will
inflict fewer Hit Points when hitting other characters.

MISFORTUNE makes bad things happen to you in general ways not
covered by the other attributes.  For instance, someone with a
lot of Misfortune might tend to lose in games of chance. 
Misfortune could be seen as a measure of how much the game's
random number generator hates you.

CLUMSINESS causes your physical actions to miss their mark; for
instance, with a high Clumsiness you are more likely to fail to
hit an opponent.  It also represents your ability to be in the
wrong place at the wrong time when avoiding an opponent's
attacks, so each attack becomes a contest of your versus your
opponent's Clumsiness scores.

STUPIDITY describes a character's tendency to do the wrong
thing through mental failure.  At present, that is almost
harmless, because Caves of Golorp does not require much mental
effort on the part of the character, so it's okay to have a
high Stupidity.  Do you believe that?

UGLINESS repels others from the character cursed with it. 
Characters of undecided allegiance (not implemented yet) are
more likely to attack a player with a high Ugliness; prostitutes
(not implemented yet) will charge the character more; and it's
generally a bad scene.

HIT POINTS is a special attribute; unlike the others, it
isn't randomly generated at the start and you don't have the
chance to customize it.  Everyone's Hit Points work the same
way: you start with zero, you gain them when you are hit (or
otherwise injured) and when you have 100, you die.  Hit Points
will gradually disappear over time, and there may be some
opportunity to have them removed faster by healing spells or
similar.

You start with the six randomly-generated attributes selected
according to a scale that depends on your character's genus and
species.  At the moment the only choice for a player character
is "person/human", and such characters start with 8d12+3 for
each attribute.  (That is, each attribute is the sum of eight
iid psuedorandom numbers each chosen uniformly from the integers
1..12, plus the constant 3.) That gives an average value of 52
for each attribute.  Then you have three chances to choose an
attribute to reduce, each one reducing the selected attribute
by 1d6 points.  You also have three chances to start over with
a new set of random attributes, in which case your number of
reductions remaining is also reset to three.

Non-player characters or "monsters" have the same seven
attributes as player characters; they're generated randomly
within ranges that depend on the character's genus and species. 
If you play a non-human character (not implemented yet), your
randomly generated attributes will similarly depend on the type
of character (instead of being 8d12+3 across the board). 
Players generally don't have the opportunity to examine a
monster's attributes directly, although it may be possible to
infer them from the monster's behaviour, or by magic.
