This is the Master Monster Scroll, from which all others are derived.

PERSONS

DEMONS

goombilada:
A sort of hopped-up boogie man, very tall and thin with fearsome
fingernails. Bane of small children everywhere.

imp:
"A Devil's baby, with skin like a pepper!"
   - Natalie Babbitt, "The Imp"

ZOMBIES

ANGELS

"Angels never came down
 There's no one here they want to hang around
 But if they knew
 If they knew you at all
 Then one by one the angels
 Angels would fall"
   - Melissa Etheridge, "Angels would fall"

haibane:
Not actually angels, but they look like Western civilization's idea of
Judeochristian angels more than the actual Judeochristian angels do, making
them as much "angels" as koalas and pandas are "bears".

ANATOMY

BEARS

care bear:
Beware its stare.

catbear:
In honour of Sean "catbear" Puckett.

kittencub:
See catbear.

water bear:
"Water bears are real
 Water bears are very small (typically 0.3 to 0.5 mm) but not primitive
 Water bears have a precise muscle control and move like higher animals
 Water bears resemble little bears; some have claws like cats
 Water bears have a mouth, head, brain, legs, eyes, nerves, muscles ...
 Water bears live next door to you (by sure)
 Water bears are thought to be extraterrestrials, at least by some authors
 Water bears have strange eggs which look like miniature artwork"
   - www.tardigrades.com

Golorpian water bears are by far the largest tardigrades - three to five
metres tall at the first set of shoulders.  Their appetites and ferocity are
similarly enormous.  Otherwise, they strongly resemble their innocuous
pond-dwelling cousins.
 
CREAMS

krispy kreme:
In Caves of Golorp, DOUGHNUT BITES YOU!

GHOSTS

MULTI-LEGGED CREATURES

"There is a multi-legged creature crawling on your shoulder."
   - Spock, _Star Trek_, "A Taste of Armageddon", stardate 3193.9

PUDDINGS

haggis:
"Fair fa' your honest, sonsie face,
 Great chieftain o' the puddin-race!
 Aboon them a' ye tak your place,
 Painch, tripe, or thairm:
 Weel are ye wordy o' a grace
 As lang's my arm.

 The groaning trencher there ye fill,
 Your hurdies like a distant hill,
 Your pin wad help to mend a mill
 In time o' need,
 While thro' your pores the dews distil
 Like amber bead."
   - Robert Burns, "Address to a Haggis"

spotted dick:
"Spotted Dick:  is a suet pudding containing sultanas.  I find your sexual
innuendos about my favourite pudding offensive in the extreme."
   - Sue Townsend, _True Confessions of Adrian Albert Mole_

toad in the hole:
"Toad in the hole:  a batter pudding containing sausages."
   - Sue Townsend, _True Confessions of Adrian Albert Mole_

Yorkshire pudding:
"Yorkshire Puddings:  batter puddings minus sausages."
   - Sue Townsend, _True Confessions of Adrian Albert Mole
